h2. Customize theme

endprologue.

h3. Theme customization

nimbleShop allows you to customize theme. Here is how you can do it.

h4. Fork the theme

Visit "https://github.com/nimbleshop/nimbleshop_simply":https://github.com/nimbleshop/nimbleshop_simply and fork this repository.

h4. Customize the forked version


First clone the nimbleshop repository

<shell>
git clone git://github.com/nimbleshop/nimbleshop_simply.git
cd nimbleshop_simply
git tag -l
</shell>

+git tag -l+ should list the version you are working with. Lets assume that you are working with version +0.0.14+ of nimbleShop.

Next let's checkout the version +0.0.14+ of nimbleshop_simply.

<shell>
git checkout v0.0.14
</shell>

After the above command you will be in +no branch+ . That's ok.

Now we need to copy nimbleshop directory to main rails project. However before copying delete the .git directory of nimbleshop. And then copy using the commands given below.

Note that in the below command my rails application is named +myshop+ and it resides at +/Users/nsingh/dev/projects/+ . In your case the directory will be different.

<shell>
rm -rf .git
cd ..
cp -rv nimbleshop /Users/nsingh/dev/projects/myshop
</shell>

After copying nimbleshop your main rails application might look like this.

<shell>
-rw-r--r--   1 nsingh  staff   916 Dec  5 23:06 Gemfile
-rw-r--r--   1 nsingh  staff  5655 Dec  5 23:06 Gemfile.lock
-rw-r--r--   1 nsingh  staff  9208 Dec  5 23:00 README.rdoc
-rw-r--r--   1 nsingh  staff   271 Dec  5 23:00 Rakefile
drwxr-xr-x   8 nsingh  staff   272 Dec  5 23:00 app
drwxr-xr-x  11 nsingh  staff   374 Dec  5 23:01 config
-rw-r--r--   1 nsingh  staff   156 Dec  5 23:00 config.ru
drwxr-xr-x   7 nsingh  staff   238 Dec  5 23:05 db
drwxr-xr-x   3 nsingh  staff   102 Dec  5 23:00 doc
drwxr-xr-x   4 nsingh  staff   136 Dec  5 23:00 lib
drwxr-xr-x   4 nsingh  staff   136 Dec  5 23:01 log
drwxr-xr-x  17 nsingh  staff   578 Dec  6 09:42 nimbleshop
drwxr-xr-x   8 nsingh  staff   272 Dec  5 23:03 public
drwxr-xr-x   3 nsingh  staff   102 Dec  5 23:00 script
drwxr-xr-x   6 nsingh  staff   204 Dec  5 23:05 tmp
drwxr-xr-x   4 nsingh  staff   136 Dec  5 23:00 vendor
</shell>

Notice that there is nimbleshop directory in between. That is where the nimbleshop code was copied from earlier step.

h4. Configuring app to use local nimbleshop theme.

Open the +Gemfile+ of your app and add +path+ option to gem +nimbleshop_simply+ .

<shell>
gem 'nimbleshop_simply', path: './nimbleshop/themes/nimbleshop_simply'
</shell>

h4. Customizing theme

Now open file +myshop/nimbleshop/themes/nimbleshop_simply/app/assets/stylesheets/nimbleshop_simply/custom.css.scss+ . Go to the bottom of the page and add following lines.

<shell>
body {
  background: green;
}
</shell>

h4. Start your rails server

Now start your rails server by running command +rails server+ and visit +http:localhost:3000+ . If you see green background then it means your customization is working .

h4. Customization is only for the theme

Even though you have the full nimbleShop folder in your +myshop+ rails application, any changes made to outside of +nimbleshop_simply+ will not be taken into account.
